A Question to Consider

Is space exploration really desirable when so much needs to be done on Earth? This is a question that has been asked for several decades and requires serious consideration.

The arguments against space exploration stem from a belief that the money spent could be used differently - to improve people's lives. In 1953, President Eisenhower captured this viewpoint. He opposed the space program, saying that each rocket fired was a theft from citizens that suffered from hunger and poverty.

Indeed, over 46.2 million Americans (15%) live in poverty. Nearly half of all Americans also have difficulty paying for housing, food, and medicine at some point in their lives. In other countries, people are dying because they do not have access to clean water, medical care, or simple solutions that prevent the spread of diseases. For example, malaria, a disease spread by mosquito bites, kills many people in Africa every year. It is possible to lower the spread of this disease by hanging large nets over beds that protect people from being bitten as they sleep. These nets cost only $5; however, most people affected by malaria cannot afford these nets.

It is not just people that need help. The Earth is suffering also. Many scientists believe that pollution from burning fossil fuels (gasoline and oil) is harming our air and oceans. We need new, cleaner forms of energy to power cars, homes, and factories. A program to develop clean energy could be viewed as a worthy investment. 

Maybe exploring space should not be a priority when there is so much that needs to be done on Earth. Right now, the government spends 19 billion dollars a year for space exploration. Some people think that this money should be spent instead to help heal the people and the Earth.

Tangible Benefits of Space Exploration 

People in favor of space exploration argue that 19 billion dollars is not too much. It is only 1.2% of the total national budget. Compare this to the 670 billion dollars the US spends for national defense (26.3% of the national budget), or the 70 billion dollars spent on education (4.8% of the budget), or the 6.3 billion dollars spent on renewable (clean) energy. 

The investment in space exploration is especially worthwhile because it has led to many tangible benefits, for example, in the area of medicine. Before NASA allowed astronauts to go on missions, scientists had to find ways to monitor their health under stressful conditions. This was to ensure the safety of the astronauts under harsh conditions, like those they would experience on launch and return. In doing this, medical instruments were developed and doctors learned about the human body's reaction to stress.

In rising to meet the challenges of space exploration, NASA scientists have developed other innovations that have improved our lives. These include better exercise machines, better airplanes, and better weather forecasting. All these resulted from technologies that NASA engineers developed to make space travel possible. 

Even the problems of hunger and poverty can be tackled by space exploration. Satellites that circle Earth can monitor lots of land at once. They can track and measure the condition of crops, soil, rainfall, drought, etc. People on Earth can use this information to improve the way we produce and distribute food. So, when we fund space exploration, we are also helping to solve some serious problems on Earth. 

The Spirit of Exploration

Beyond providing us with inventions, space exploration is important for the challenge it provides and the motivation to bring out the best in ourselves. Space exploration helps us remain a creative society. It makes us strive for better technologies and more scientific knowledge. Often, we make progress in solving difficult problems by first setting challenging goals, which inspire innovative work. 

 Finally, space exploration is important because it can motivate beneficial competition among nations. Imagine how much human suffering can be avoided if nations competed with planet-exploring spaceships instead of bomb-dropping airplanes. We saw an example of this in the 1960's. During what is called the Cold War, the United States and Russia competed to prove their greatness in a race to explore space. They each wanted to be the first to land a spacecraft on the moon and visit other planets. This was achieved. It also resulted in many of the technologies and advancements already mentioned. In addition, the 'space race' led to significant investment and progress in American education, especially in math and science. This shows that by looking outward into space, we have improved life here on Earth. 

Returning to the Question

All this brings us back to the question: Should we explore space when there is so much that needs to be done on Earth? It is true that we have many serious problems to deal with on Earth, but space exploration is not at odds with solving human problems. In fact, it may even help find solutions. Space exploration will lead to long-term benefits to society that more than justify the immediate cost.
